Create an example of a GUI application with PySide6 (#2095)
ansys/pymapdl: doc/source/examples/extended_examples/gui/executable.rst

.. _gui_example:

=======================================
Create a GUI app in Python with PySide6
=======================================

This example shows how to create a graphical user interface (GUI) app in Python that uses PyMAPDL to compute the deflection of a square beam.

Simulation setup
================

The :download:`gui.py <gui.py>` script launches a graphical app using PySide6.

> The preprocessing tab contains input fields for Poisson's ratio, Young modulus, beam length, and number of simulation nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Preprocessing** tab contains input fields for Poisson's ratio, Young modulus, beam length, and number of simulation nodes.
```
Bold GUI elements when referenced in the doc.

.. image:: base_app.png

Add a PyVista plotting frame in the window
==========================================

> Start by importing `QtInteractor <https://qtdocs.pyvista.org/api_reference.html#qtinteractor>`_ from ``pyvistaqt`` and :class:`MapdlTheme <ansys.mapdl.core.theme.MapdlTheme>` from ``ansys-mapdl-core``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by importing the `QtInteractor <https://qtdocs.pyvista.org/api_reference.html#qtinteractor>`_ class from the ``pyvistaqt`` package and the :class:`MapdlTheme <ansys.mapdl.core.theme.MapdlTheme>` class from the ``ansys-mapdl-core`` package:
```

.. code:: python

    from pyvistaqt import QtInteractor
    from ansys.mapdl.core import MapdlTheme

> Then, add a plotter in the first tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, add a plotter in the **Preprocessing** tab:
```

.. code:: python

    def _setup_tab_preprocessing(self) -> None:
        ...
        container_layout.addWidget(self._run_preprocessor_button, 5, 0, 1, 3)

        # PyVista frame in the window
        self._preprocessing_plotter = QtInteractor(theme=MapdlTheme())
        container_layout.addWidget(self._preprocessing_plotter, 0, 4, 6, 50)

> And another one in the second tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add another plotter on the second tab:
```

.. code:: python

    def _setup_tab_postprocessing(self) -> None:
        container_layout = QtWidgets.QVBoxLayout()
        self._tab_postprocessing.setLayout(container_layout)
        self._postprocessing_plotter = QtInteractor(theme=MapdlTheme())
        container_layout.addWidget(self._postprocessing_plotter)
        self._deflection_label = QLabel("Deflection: ")
        container_layout.addWidget(self._deflection_label)

Finally, make sure to correctly close the VTK widgets when closing the app:

.. code:: python

    def closeEvent(self, event) -> None:
        self._preprocessing_plotter.close()
        self._postprocessing_plotter.close()
        event.accept()  # let the window close

Launch an MAPDL instance in your window
=======================================

> Add an attribute to your MainWindow for the MAPDL instance and import ``launch_mapdl``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an attribute to your MainWindow for the MAPDL instance and import the ``launch_mapdl`` package.
```
Change "MainWindow" to main window or tag it in backticks to make it a literal (and follow it with a noun) describing what it is.)

.. literalinclude:: gui_app.py
    :lines: 19, 22-26, 231-236

Develop the logic
=================

Connect each button to a function that contains the logic.

.. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 5,14

    def _setup_tab_preprocessing(self) -> None:
        ...
        # Button to run the preprocessor
        self._run_preprocessor_button = QPushButton(text="Run preprocessor")
        self._run_preprocessor_button.clicked.connect(self._run_preprocessor)
        ...

    def _setup_tab_solver(self) -> None:
        container_layout = QGridLayout()
        self._tab_solver.setLayout(container_layout)

        self._solve_button = QPushButton(text="Solve")
        self._solve_button.clicked.connect(self._run_solver)

        container_layout.addWidget(self._solve_button)

You can now write the related functions:

.. literalinclude:: gui_app.py
    :lines: 137-223

.. image:: final_app_preprocessing.png

.. image:: final_app_solver.png

.. image:: final_app_postprocessing.png

Additional files
================

> The examples files can be downloaded at the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example files can be downloaded using these links:
```

.. _gui_example:

=======================================
Create a GUI app in Python with PySide6
=======================================

This example shows how to create a graphical user interface (GUI) app in Python that uses PyMAPDL to compute the deflection of a square beam.

Simulation setup
================

The :download:`gui.py <gui.py>` script launches a graphical app using PySide6.
The preprocessing tab contains input fields for Poisson's ratio, Young modulus, beam length, and number of simulation points.

.. literalinclude:: gui.py

.. image:: base_app.png

Add a PyVista plotting frame in the window
==========================================

> Start by importing ``QtInteractor` from ``pyvistaqt`` and ``MapdlTheme`` from ``ansys-mapdl-core``.

Reviewer 2: Also use ``:meth:`` and ``:class:`` to link the documentation

.. code:: python

    from pyvistaqt import QtInteractor
    from ansys.mapdl.core import MapdlTheme

Then, add a plotter in the first tab:

.. code:: python

    def _setup_tab_preprocessing(self) -> None:
        ...
        container_layout.addWidget(self._run_preprocessor_button, 5, 0, 1, 3)

        # PyVista frame in the window
        self._preprocessing_plotter = QtInteractor(theme=MapdlTheme())

>         container_layout.addWidget(self._preprocessing_plotter, 0, 4, 6, 50)

Author: The problem of `literalinclude` is that I will be forced either to display the full function or to display the interesting parts  of the function without telling that there is an ellipsis

>         container_layout.addWidget(self._preprocessing_plotter, 0, 4, 6, 50)

Reviewer 2: I see... mmhh.. well.. leave it as it is then.

And another one in the second tab:

.. code:: python

    def _setup_tab_postprocessing(self) -> None:
        container_layout = QtWidgets.QVBoxLayout()
        self._tab_postprocessing.setLayout(container_layout)
        self._postprocessing_plotter = QtInteractor(theme=MapdlTheme())
        container_layout.addWidget(self._postprocessing_plotter)
        self._deflection_label = QLabel("Deflection: ")
        container_layout.addWidget(self._deflection_label)

> Finally, make sure to correctly close the widget using the app:

Author: Yes, otherwise we get an error : https://discourse.vtk.org/t/wglmakecurrent-failed-in-makecurrent-after-closed-a-window-with-two-vtk-widget/5899

.. code:: python

    def closeEvent(self, event) -> None:
        self._preprocessing_plotter.close()
        self._postprocessing_plotter.close()
        event.accept()  # let the window close

> Import MAPDL instance in your window
> ====================================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Launch an MAPDL instance in your window
================================
```
```suggestion
Import MAPDL instance in your window
====================================
```

Add an attribute to your MainWindow for the MAPDL instance and import ``launch_mapdl``.

> .. code:: python
> 
>     from ansys.mapdl.core import Mapdl, launch_mapdl
> 
> .. literalinclude:: gui_app.py
>     :lines: 22-26
> 
> .. literalinclude:: gui_app.py
>     :lines: 231-236

Reviewer 2: I think this should work.
```suggestion
.. literalinclude:: gui_app.py
    :lines: 19, 22-26, 231-236
```

Reviewer 2: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#directive-literalinclude

> :orphan:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This example shouldn't be an orphan because it is included in the toctree in the `index.rst` file of `extended_examples`.

.. _gui_example:

=======================================
Create a GUI app in Python with PySide6
=======================================

> This example shows how to create a graphical user interface (GUI) app in Python that use PyMAPDL to compute the deflection of a squared shape beam.

Author: I am reopenning this conversation because vale wants me to use the word "app" instead of "application".
See [here](https://github.com/ansys/pymapdl/runs/14000024791)
Should I still use the word "application" ?

> This example shows how to create a graphical user interface (GUI) app in Python that use PyMAPDL to compute the deflection of a squared shape beam.

Reviewer 3: You can follow the Vale rules, it was a suggestion :)

Simulation configuration
========================

The :download:`gui.py <gui.py>` scripts launch an graphical app using PySide6.
In the preprocessing tab, there is a field for the Poisson's ratio, the Young modulus, the length of the beam, and the number of point for the simulation.

.. literalinclude:: gui.py

.. image:: base_app.png

Add a PyVista plotting frame in the window
==========================================

> Start by importing `QtInteractor` from pyvistaqt and `MapdlTheme` from PyMAPDL

Reviewer 2: Actually: 
```
Start by importing ``QtInteractor`` from ``pyvistaqt`` and ``MapdlTheme`` from ``ansys-mapdl-core``.
```

    from pymapdl import MapdlTheme

Then add a plotter in the first tab

.. code:: python

    def _setup_tab_preprocessing(self) -> None:
        ...
        container_layout.addWidget(self._run_preprocessor_button, 5, 0, 1, 3)

        # PyVista frame in the window
        self._preprocessing_plotter = QtInteractor(theme=MapdlTheme())
        container_layout.addWidget(self._preprocessing_plotter, 0, 4, 6, 50)

And one in the second tab:

.. code:: python

    def _setup_tab_postprocessing(self) -> None:
        container_layout = QtWidgets.QVBoxLayout()
        self._tab_postprocessing.setLayout(container_layout)
        self._postprocessing_plotter = QtInteractor(theme=MapdlTheme())
        container_layout.addWidget(self._postprocessing_plotter)
        self._deflection_label = QLabel("Deflection: ")
        container_layout.addWidget(self._deflection_label)

Finally, close the widget correctly with the app:

.. code:: python

    def closeEvent(self, event) -> None:
        self._preprocessing_plotter.close()
        self._postprocessing_plotter.close()
        event.accept()  # let the window close

Import MAPDL instance in your window
====================================

> Add an attribute to your MainWindow for the MAPDL instance and import launch_mapdl

Reviewer 2: Ideally we should use 
```rst
:meth:`launch_mapdl() <ansys.mapdl.core.launcher.launch_mapdl>`
```

This allow us to create a reference to the object documentation page.

The object reference can be obtained from the documentation page:
https://mapdl.docs.pyansys.com/version/stable/api/_autosummary/ansys.mapdl.core.launcher.launch_mapdl.html#launch-mapdl

<img width="812" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ansys/pymapdl/assets/28149841/b5c312f6-fb38-4273-8186-a519f1a3d361">
